Background and objective: The reason behind many
psychological problems is that there is no meaning in life.
This study aimed to determine the relationship between
meaning in life with depression, anxiety and stress status
among college students of Iran University of Medical
Sciences (IUMS) in 2013.
Methods: In this descriptive-analytical study, 222 college
students living in dormitories at IUMS completed a
questionnaire consisting demographic characteristics,
depression, anxiety, and stress and meaning in life scales.
The collected data were analyzed by using SPSS18 through
the independent-samples t, Pearson correlation and Oneway
ANOVA tests.
Findings: The mean age of the participants was 23 (Â±3.6)
years. 50.5% of students had some degrees of depression;
30.9% had some degrees of stress, and 73% had anxiety to
some degree (mild to extremely severe). The results showed
that the average score of anxiety was significantly related
to meaning in life (p=0.04). Also, there were significant
associations between the mean scores of depression, anxiety
and stress among students (p > 0.05).
Conclusion: Meaning in life is a factor influencing the
college students, anxiety. In the psychological counseling,
logotherapy methods can improve the meaning in life and
mental health of college students.
