Background and objective: Hypertension is a prevalent
health problem that could be prevented through preventative
behaviors. This study aimed to assess the impact of health
education program in improving knowledge and attitudes of
patients with hypertension regarding preventative behavior.
Materials and methods: This is an interventional trial
undertaken before and after hypertension patients were
referred to health centers affiliated to TUMS in south of
Tehran, Iran. Totally, 60 eligible patients were randomly
selected. Then knowledge and attitudes of participants
regarding hypertension preventive behavior was assessed
before and after intervention through a self-administered
questionnaire. Data was analyzed using SPSS18 through
paired t and Chi square tests.
Results: The mean age of participants were 53.5 ±7.2. The
mean scores of knowledge and attitudes were significantly
improved after intervention (67.6±18.8 vs 92.0 ± 5.4 for
knowledge and 55.3 ± 15.4 vs 87.8 ± 8.6 for attitude) (all
p <  0.0001).
Conclusion: Designed educational program is an effective
intervention and could play an important role in improving
knowledge and attitudes of hypertension patients.
