The main objective of this study is to investigate the production factors
productivity in large manufacturing sub-sectors. For this purpose, using
statistical data for period 1972-2004,we have tried to study and analyze the
trend and level of production factors productivity (partial and total
productivity) in each sub-sectors classified according to ISIC two digits
code. The average and marginal productivity indices have been used for
evaluation of partial factors productivity. The total factors productivity
(TFP) is estimated via the production functions approach
The findings are indicative of relatively good status of partial factors
productivity in manufacturing of chemical products and manufacturing of
basic metals in comparison with other sub-sectors. But the status of partial
factors productivity in other sub-sectors specially in manufacturing of
textile, wearing apparel and leather product and manufacturing of wood and
products of wood seems to be fatal. The study of TFP using estimation of
production functions of large manufacturing sub-sectors reveals that the
largest rate TFP growth is respectively related to the manufacturing of
machinery, equipment, and metal instruments and products, manufacturing
of basic metals and manufacturing of chemical products. As for the other
sub-sectors, TFP growth rate is not statistically different from zero. The
findings also indicate that the events like war, revolution and sanctions have
negatively affected TFP growth rate in the manufacturing sub-sectors

