Objective
Approximately one third of epileptic children are resistant to anticonvulsant
drugs. This study evaluates the effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of
pregabalin as adjunctive therapy in epileptic children relative to Zonisamide.
Materials & Methods
From April 2012 to November 2012,121 children were referred to Mofid
Children’s Hospital with intractable epilepsy and enrolled in the study. The
patients were divided into two groups (A and B) randomly. Group A was treated
with Zonisamide and group B was treated with Pregabalin in addition to prior
medication. We assessed seizure frequency and severity during a 4-week interval
from the beginning of the drug treatment and compared the ef?cacy of each in
these two groups.
Results
Group A consists of 61 patients, 26 (42.6%) girls, and35 (57.4%) boys with
an age range from 1.5 months–14 years (mean, 73.9± 44.04 months). Group B
consists of 60 patients, 31(51.7%) girls, 29 (48.3%) boys with an age range from
6 months–16 years (mean, 71±42.9 months). Age, gender, seizure onset, seizure
frequency, seizure type, and previous antiepileptic medications showed that
there was no significant difference between the groups (P > 0.05). Zonisamide
and pregabalin reduced more than 50% of seizure intensity in 40.2%; 45.8% of
patients also had a seizure frequency decline between35.8–44.4%, respectively
and there was no significant superiority between these two novel anticonvulsants
(P > 0.05).
Conclusion
In this survey both pregabalin and Zonisamide were impressive for seizure
control in children with intractable epilepsy and well sustained with mild
complications that were completely reversible.
