Abstract: Aim: This study investigated the
relationship between occupation, gender,
mental and physical health, and emotional
intelligence. Method is expose- facto and 150
respondent in Zanjan including managers,
university heads, lecturers, teachers, civil
servants, workers and farmers were randomly
selected. Participants completed the Mental
Health Inventory (MHI, 1983), Physical
Health Checklist (PHC. 2004), Emotional
Intelligence Scale (EIS, 1998), along with
demographic information form. Data were
analyzed using multivariate analysis. Results:
Indicated that the main effect of occupation
on psychological well being, psychological
distress, emotional intelligence, subjective
physical health, and objective physical health
was significant. Also the main effect of
gender was significant on psychological well
being, psychological distress, subjective
physical health and emotional intelligence but
not on objective physical health. The
interactional of gender and occupation was
significant on psychological distress and
emotional intelligence but not on
psychological well being, and physical health
(objective and subjective). Discussion:
Findings showed the connection between
health, emotional intelligence, and
occupation, and can be helpful in planning
pathological and preventional programs in
organizations.
