An Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) algorithm to
optimal tune of the Power System Stabilizer (PSS) in a
Single-Machine Infinite-Bus (SMIB) power system is
proposed in this paper. In the ABC method the food
foraging behavior, memorizing and information sharing
characteristics of honey bee swarm is simulated to find
the best possible solution within a reasonable
computation time. The problem of robustly PSS design is
formulated as an optimization problem according to the
time domain-based objective function for a wide range of
operating conditions and is solved by the ABC technique
which is simple, robust and capable to solve difficult
combinatorial optimization problems. The proposed ABC
based PSS is tested on a SMIB power system through the
nonlinear time domain simulation and some performance
indices in comparison with the particle swarm
optimization based tuned stabilizer and conventional PSS
to illustrate its robust performance. Results evaluation
show that the proposed stabilizer achieves good robust
performance for wide range of system operation
conditions and is superior to the other PSSs.
