In this research a multi-objective Imperialist
Competitive Algorithm (MOICA) is applied for
Environmental and Economic Power Dispatch (EED)
problem. Due to the environmental concerns that arise
from the emissions produced via fossil-fueled electric
power plants, the classical economic dispatch, which
operates electric power systems so as to minimize only
the total fuel cost, can no longer be considered alone.
Hence, by environmental dispatch, emissions can be
reduced by dispatch of power generation to minimize
emissions. Also, power generated, system loads, fuel cost
and emission coefficients are subjected to inaccuracies
and uncertainties in real-world situations. The proposed
technique has been carried out on the IEEE 30-bus and
118-bus test system. The results demonstrate the
capability of the proposed MOICA approach to solve of
multi-objective EED problem. The comparison reported
results with MODE and other techniques reveals the
superiority of the proposed MOICA approach and
confirms its potential for solving other power systems
multi-objective optimization problems.
