Objective To explore if differences in
negative life events, vulnerability and social support
may explain the gender difference in depression.
Methods Cross-sectional, multinational, community
survey from five European countries (n = 8,787).
Depression is measured by Beck Depression Inventory,
whereas negative life events and social support
are measured by various questionnaires. Results -
Women report slightly more negative life events than
men do, mainly related to the social network, but
more social support in general and in connection with
reported life events. This trend is the same in all
participating countries except Spain, where there is
no gender difference in the reported support. In
general, women are not more vulnerable to negative
life events than men are. However, women with no
social support, who are exposed to life events, are
more vulnerable than men without support. Conclusion
The higher rate of depression in women is not
explained by gender differences in negative life
events, social support or vulnerability.
