Objective To investigate the case fatality proportion and
associated factors in those carrying out suicide acts in
Nantou, Taiwan.
Method Data from 1,171 suicide acts (including 973 with
deliberate self harm and 198 completed suicides), identified
between July 2000 and February 2003, were collected from
a population suicide register in Nantou County, Taiwan.
Case fatality proportion and the independent effects of
demographic factors and suicide method on case fatality
were investigated.
Results The overall case fatality proportion was 16.9%,
with higher proportions in men (26.3%) and in those aged
65 and over (37.9%). Hanging was the most lethal method
(fatality proportion = 81.5%); pesticide was both commonly
used and associated with a high case fatality (fatality
proportion = 26.3%). Only age (increased with age) and
suicide method were found to be independently associated
with the risk of fatality.
Conclusions Suicide method and older age are independent
predictors of the fatality of suicide acts. Suicide
prevention strategy and clinical assessment ought to take
into account of these two factors. Diminution of pesticide
toxicity and control of access to pesticides are important
considerations for suicide prevention in rural Taiwan
