Objectives: We aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a
transobturator sling (TOT) procedure by using an adjustable
TOT device in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence
(SUI).
Materials and Methods: The data of 89 patients who had the
diagnosis of SUI and underwent TOT operation by using an
adjustable MUS device of SAFYRE t plus (Promedon®) between
June 2005 - November 2012, were retrospectively evaluated.
The pateints were evaluted by the parametres of physical
examination, stress test, ultrasonography, uroflowmetry,
residual urine measurement, cystometry, subjective
incontinence scoring (VASi), patients' satisfaction scoring
(VASs), and ICQ-SF questionare. The preoperative,
perioperative, and postoperative collected data were
statistically analysed to determine the efficacy and safety of
TOT application by using SAFYRE t plus.
Results: The mean age, account of parity, and body mass index
was 55.3±10.1, 2.34 ± 1.43, and 24.97 ± 3.7, respectively.
While the pre- and postoperative results of stress test, VASi,
and ICIQ-SF scores were significantly different (P=0.00 in all),
the pre- and postoperative results of Qmax and PVR account
were similar (P= 0.84, P= 0.79, respectively). The severity of
subjective incontinence (VASi score) significantly improved
after the operation. The mean VASs score at postoperative 12th
month was 7.75±1.11. The subjective and objective cure rates
were %89.9 (80/89) and %78.6 (70/89), respectively.
Conclusion: The TOT operation by using SAFYRE t plus, which
was an adjustable sling device, seemed to be an efficient,
reasonably safe, minimally invasive treatment alternative for
the surgical management SUI in women.
